[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> A repeated galactic burst
of energy coming from 3 billion
light-years away, and
astronomers don't know what it
is.
>> This particular magnetar
is firing bursts very quickly
and rapidly, faster than
theoretically possible.
>> This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
First observed in 2007, this
phenomenon, called a Fast Radio
Burst or FRB, lasts only
a fraction of a second,
but puts out massive
amounts of energy,
and some put out
repeated signals.
Marc Dantonio, astronomer
and "Gaia News" contributor,
on this phenomenon.
>> These fast radio bursts
are what they sound like,
radio bursts, that is, down
in the long wavelength end
of the spectrum, the
red end of the spectrum,
light you can't see.
And they happen in just
a few milliseconds.
But we usually see
them from galaxies
that are billions
of light-years away,
which implies they
have a massive strength
to get here with the kind
of intensity that they do.
So that was a mystery.
And then we theorized about--
and I should say,
astrophysicists
theorized about--
stars like the pulsar,
which is a neutron star, but
far more highly magnetic.
And that means that
these stars have
these massive magnetic
fields, and they
have this rarefied
atmosphere that
includes electricity
and magnetic fields
and then the surface
of the star itself.
And under certain
conditions, those stars
could emit, basically,
like a shockwave pulse,
a resonant pulse
that is like waves.
You push waves in a pool,
and eventually one of them
is going to get
really, really big.
Well, that really, really
big wave is a resonant wave.
It's the one that
they all add together.
And sometimes that happens
with these magnetars,
as they're called,
these gigantic, highly
magnetized neutron stars.
And they send out this
very, very rapid pulse--
pow!
>> How does a star of that
type recharge and fire again
so quickly?
>> Now, it takes some time for
a neutron star of that type
to recharge and be able to make
another one of these bursts.
But this particular
one, OK, just
when you think you
understand everything,
OK, this particular one
shows us that we don't quite
understand everything, because
this particular magnetar,
if it's a magnetar at all,
is firing bursts very quickly
and rapidly, faster than
theoretically possible.
[SIGHS]
So now we don't know
what's going on here.
Now we don't have an idea.
What's causing it to
charge up again so quickly?
To be able to do this--
it's like a flashbulb,
like a flash when you,
like, on your camera, OK?
In the old days, when
people had flashes,
when you set off the flash,
you would hear [VOCALIZING]..
You would hear it
charging up again.
Then you can fire the flash
maybe 10, 15 seconds later.
Well, think about that
in terms of a star.
A magnetar burst goes off.
Pew!
It sends out this burst
that is massive, so
massive that it would dwarf
the output of our sun, OK?
And then it sends up another
one right in short succession.
Wait a minute.
What is this?
And that's what's
the mystery here.
We don't know.
Isn't that exciting?
I mean, I think that's
really exciting.
>> Is it possible that these
fast radio bursts that fire
in rapid succession with more
power than the sun are some
type of signal from
another life force?
>> It would be arrogance to say
that it is definitely not life
form.
That'd be arrogance.
But I do know that pulsars,
when we first saw them,
were thought to be
intelligent signals as well.
And it turned out that
they were neutron stars.
They had that
lighthouse beacons.
Could FRBs be a
natural phenomenon?
Yeah, they could, and
maybe they are, OK?
The chances are that they are.
But I can't deny that these
FRBs, they act a certain way.
And then you find one
that doesn't, and that's
pretty perplexing.
That's pretty perplexing.
And that really
opens up the mind
to think of the possibilities.
Like, hmm, what could
be causing that?
>> This is a young field
of study for astronomy.
What is the big
takeaway from what we've
learned about FRBs so far?
>> The takeaway here
is that we don't know.
[LAUGHS]
[GRUMBLES]
But you know what?
That's actually the fun part.
You know, it keeps you
digging through the research.
It keeps you
looking at the data,
trying to figure
out what exactly it
is we're looking at here.
But then again, on the
other side of this,
I'm sitting there thinking, hmm,
I wonder if it is artificial.
But we can't deny
the possibility
that there might be other
things at play here.
But we always,
always, always have
to exhaust all the natural
phenomena possibilities first.
But I like the
possibility that's
out there that might suggest
they could be a signal.
>> For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]